---
layout: post
title: Learn By Teaching Others How To Learn
date: 2015-07-30
tags: Learning MOOC Procrastination Sleep Pomodoro Exercise
categories: MOOC
published: true

---

### 1. Procrastination

#### Why ?

Your brain tends to choose something less painful to do in order to mitigate the pain. 

#### How to prevent it ?

>It's all about getting started

>I don't want to do this but I will start doing it for 5 minutes and if I hate it, I will stop.

* Habits save energy.
    * Four parts of a habit:
        * The cue: the trigger that launches you into zombie mode
        * The routine: your zombie mode.
        * The reward
        * The belief


* Pomodoro
    * Set 25 minutes
    * Cut off possible disturb such as email notification, phone and noise. 
    * Focus on your work
    * Reward yourself


* Harnessing Your Zombies to Help You
    * The only place you need to apply willpower is to change your reaction to the cue.
    * The cue
        * Location
        * Time
        * How you feel
        * Reactions(**Change this one to make difference**)
    * The routine
        * Have a plan to rewire
    * The reward(**very important**)
        * Always make sure you and your zombies get lots of rewards
        * Take a few minutes to savor the feelings of happiness and triumph
    * The belief
        * The belief that you can do it.
        * Belief that your new system works is what can get you through

 
* Process Versus Product
    * Tell yourself: quit wasting time, and just get on with it, you will fell better soon.
    * Focus on process not product. By focusing on process rather than product, you allow yourself to back away from judging yourself (Am I getting closer to finishing? ) and allow yourself to relax into the flow



* Juggling Life and Learning
    * Make to-do list the evening before. So your subconsciousness will help you arrange your tomorrow's tasks when you fall asleep.
    * Use diffuse mode to solve problems when you are doing some trifles.
    * Use process-oriented task definition rather than objective-oriented. e.g., reading for an hour instead of finishing reading chapter 3. 
    * Planning your quitting time is as important as planning your working time.
    * Try to work on a most important and most disliked task first. At least just one Pomodoro, as soon as you wake up.
    * Take notes about what works and what doesn't
    
### 2. Sleep

The benefits of Sleep in Learning:

* Refresh : sleep helps to wash away the toxin in your brain  
* Memorize : sleep strengthens memory   
* Recall before Sleep

Tips:

* Make to-do list the evening before. 
* Recall the knowledge you have learned during daytime, so it will be strengthened when you are sleeping. 

### 3. Exercise

Two experiences that help your neurons to grow and survive

   * Exercise!
       * The best gift that you can give your brain is Physical Exercise.
       * Help new neurons survive
       * Exercise is by far, more effective than any drug on the market today to help you learn better.
   
   * Exposure to new environments or ideas.
       * try new path to your work place
       * try to do things in a different way
       * try new tastes, new styles...
       * Low of serendipity: Lady Luck favors the one who tries. 
       
> Just try one tiny thing to learn, then another. Just keep trying.




